[![.github/workflows/test.yml](https://code.harvard.edu/CS107/team32/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://code.harvard.edu/CS107/team32/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![.github/workflows/coverage.yml](https://code.harvard.edu/CS107/team32/actions/workflows/coverage.yml/badge.svg)](https://code.harvard.edu/CS107/team32/actions/workflows/coverage.yml)

# team32
CS107/AC207 Project

# Introduction
Differentiation is defined as the process of finding the 
gradients/derivatives of a particular function in hand. It finds multiple 
applications in the areas of science and engineering. With the exponential 
growth in the size of the dataset and advancements in technologies - the 
complexity of computing derivatives has increased and we have become 
increasingly dependent on computers to compute derivatives.

Currently, there are three ways to compute derivatives - finite, symbolic, 
automatic differentiation. The finite differentiation method although 
being quick and easy to implement - suffers from machine precision and 
rounding errors. We are able to alleviate these issues using symbolic 
differentiation, however, it becomes computationally very expensive as the 
function(s) starts to get complex. We are able to alleviate both the 
issues of computational complexity and machine precision using automatic 
differentiation.

Automatic Differentiation leverages symbolic rules for evaluating 
gradients - which is more accurate than using finite difference 
approximations. But unlike a purely symbolic process, the evaluation of 
expressions takes place early in the computation - it evaluates 
derivatives at particular numeric values.

The package fab-AD implements automatic differentiation for computational 
use. fabAD can be used to automatically differentiate functions via 
forward mode. Automatic Differentiation finds applications in 
optimization, machine learning, and numerical methods.

# User Guide
Once you install the package, you can simple import it by `import fab_ad 
as ad`.
Afterwards, you could initiate the FabTensor object by giving the point 
where you wish to differentiate. FabTensor can take in a vector input 
values, representing a point's coordinates in multi-dimensional space. 
Moreover, you could also add other supplementary features as in the code 
demo provided below. You can find this demo file by the name of usage.py 
under src in the github.

```import sys, os

sys.path.insert(0, os.path.abspath(os.path.join(os.path.dirname(__file__), 
'..')))

from fab_ad import FabTensor
import numpy as np


if __name__ == "__main__":
    x = FabTensor(value=3, derivative=np.array([1, 0]), identifier='x')
    y = FabTensor(value=-4, derivative=np.array([0, 1]), identifier='y')
    seed_vector = np.array([0, 1])
    z = x * y
    print(z)
    print("gradient: ", z.directional_derivative(seed_vector))

    x = FabTensor(value=3, derivative=1, identifier='x')
    y = FabTensor(value=-4, derivative=0, identifier='y')
    z = x ** 2 + y ** 2
    print(z)```

# Documentation
You can find the documentation for this package [here](https://code.harvard.edu/pages/CS107/team32/).

We use `numpydoc==1.5.0`  and `sphinx==4.2` for documentation.

# Broader Impact, Inclusivity and Future directions
We hope that our package will be used in a variety of disciplines, 
including physics, engineering, applied mathematics, astronomy, and even 
domains that the package's creators could never have envisaged. We believe 
that this package can be used to perform automatic differentiations 
accurately and effectively as well as serve as a model for the future 
creation of improved automatic differentiation packages. We see several 
opportunities for this package to be improved and would be pleased to see 
them realized.

On the other hand, we don't want to see this program being used as a 
shortcut for differentiating work or for plagiarism or cheating. This 
package's open-source nature makes it available to everyone, but it also 
leaves it vulnerable to those who intend to use it for plagiarism. Users 
should be mindful of this nature and pick their method of using this 
package carefully. This software is not intended to be used as a shortcut 
for differentiation procedures. It could be used to check results for 
derivative calculations done manually or using other algorithms, although 
derivative calculation techniques should still be used instead. These 
exercises serve a purpose, and using this software to find the solutions 
does not advance learning.

Also evident is the connection between our automatic differentiation 
algorithms and mathematical concepts like the Leibniz Rule and the Faa di 
Bruno Formula that we made while working on this project. It shouldn't be 
the first time that these formulas have been employed to compute 
higher-order derivatives, but it provided motivation for us to carry out 
the implementation ourselves. In order to close the gap between theories 
and applications, we want for our project to serve as a case study. This 
experience demonstrates that now is the perfect time for all types of 
information to come together in order to support new discoveries, which 
will enable us and many students to continue working toward this aim.

# Software Inclusivity
Users and collaborators from all origins and identities are welcome to the 
fab_adÂ package and its developer. As was seen during the creation of this 
package, we think that trust, respect, and care are the foundations of 
greatness in a collaborative endeavor. In an effort to reach as many 
people as possible who are interested in this package, we made every 
effort to make it as inclusive and user-friendly as possible by including 
the necessary documentation and instructions. Although this package was 
created using Python and English, anyone who is proficient in another 
language or programming language is welcome to contribute. Pull requests 
are examined and approved by all developers while this package is being 
developed.

Every time one of us feels the need to start a pull request, that person 
would talk to the other members and come to a consensus. We would adore 
the opportunity to carry this constructive dialogue into other 
collaborations with this package.



## Development environment setup

1. Create virtual environment

2. Use poetry to install Dependencies
```bash
python3 -m pip install poetry
poetry install
```

### Running tests
<TO DO>


### Making documentation
```
Populate your master file /Users/saket/Documents/workdir/harvard_courses/cs107a/git/team32/index.rst and create other documentation
source files. Use the Makefile to build the docs, like so:
   make builder
where "builder" is one of the supported builders, e.g. html, latex or linkcheck.

```


